Final Project Milestone

Project Title: IronLog
Your Name: Marcel Gabriel Janzer
Overview

So far I have a working webapp with:

    Auth: Google SignIn with JWT and /api/config based clientID fetch

    Backend: Node/Express + Mongo (Exercises, Templates, Logs, Plans, Users)

    UI:

        Log: per training set logging -> volume charts

        Builder: create and edit templates with color picker

        Planner: month and week view with color coded (based on template color) schedule and clickable/pressable tiles to get more info (long click)

        Profile: avatar preview with upload and logout (and theme but not working yet)

    PWA: service-worker offline cache and safe area on iOS (still need to test with WebKit)

    Design:  flex header (top right profile) and fixed bottom nav

What’s left:

High Priority:
Fixing Charts
UI overhaul
Fix weekly view in calendar
Thinking about Exercise API and how to get GIFs, potentially just storing everything in mongo and serving it like I did it now
Fixing TODO's in the code and minor bugs

Low Proiority:
Dark theme (not sure yet though) 
SortableJS draganddrop to reorder exercises in template 	
Avatar upload code written but not fully tested
Unit tests 


No critical blockers: the only earlier issue was Google GSI with COOP
s--> olved by removing the header in dev
Project Changes

    Added a Calendar planner (month/week) not in original proposal (but added it then to it)

    Dropped the initial idea of SortableJS, but might revisit though

    Added Profile page with avatar upload and settings 

Implementation Details

Template editor	showBuilder() builds a <ul> where each row is <li.row card> 
Backend:
POST /api/templates (create) 
PUT /api/templates/:id (update) stores in Template collection

Calendar planner	
showPlanner() renders a grid and assigns template model and longpress shows preview 
body class month/week toggles CSS
	
Plan model user,date,template:
Backend:
GET /api/plans?month=YYYY-MM
PUT /api/plans upsert

Charts	showStats() aggregates logs per exercise
Chart.js line graph

Profile	showProfile() file input preview
Backend:
/api/user PUT with multer saves in avatar directory

External Libraries
Chart.js for progress graphs
Multer for avatar file upload
Google Identity Services for OAuth login
Mongoose for MongoDB models
dotenv for env vars
	
Collaboration and Resources

2 of my friends are going to test this on their phone as soon as I implement it 
within WebKit on iOS.

I used to Google Gemini 2.5 Experimental to help out with some css. I had no experiece with touchscreens and 
since we did not cover it in the course, I used AI to help me with the styling. Especially the first part of the 
style.css. Other than that I used many docs and also existing code from other projects I did in the past. 
(routes are usually pretty similar in regards of the structure etc.)

Anything else?

Going to drop the CSV export and want to focus on UI more. It's really difficult for me to support touchscreen
and mobile-first developing with out any frontend framework. I usually use React, therefore the UI is a bit lackluster
in my opinion right now :(. 